:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       890abcd2-60ef-4fd5-ad56-06c88217eb73
:END:
#+TITLE: Dust Mites
#+DESCRIPTION: Book of Job... Get a Job
#+TAGS:

* Roam
+ [[id:52e8cc43-e252-4f76-bfda-40afbfffb1b8][Medical Stuff and Things]]

* Docs
+ [[https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/mites-that-bug-people#section_heading_10924][Mites that "Bug" People]]

* Resources

* Topics
** Sarcoptes Scabiei: The Mange

Great. [[https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/mites-that-bug-people#section_heading_10922][Scabies]]...

God, now I feel kinda horrible for all those [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9gspElv1yvc&pp=0gcJCfwAo7VqN5tD][McLachlan puppies]]: they /get/ the
mange from the abusive household and run away to avoid it, but can't clear the
infection bc of their fur. Life is much less depressing when explained in
detail, isn't it?

** Itch Mites

[[https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/mites-that-bug-people#section_heading_10924][Itch Mites]]: Well it sounds better than "the literal fucking mange."

** Ceratopogonidae

[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceratopogonidae][Ceratopogonidae]] Not a mite, but I have found a few of these species, though I
had never seen them in Virginia (or anywhere).

From 8/17/2024, found in my adderall bottle.

[[file:img/noseeums/ceratopogonidae_9701.jpg]]

From 7/22/2025, dangling on an impossibly singular spider web.

[[file:img/noseeums/ceratopogonidae_2213.jpg]]

These aren't the problem though. Just noise. The 2024 infestation occured while
I dealt with multiple brown recluse bites... though small, somewhat necrotic.
Amid an infestation of "False Widows", which are always a joy to find ... until
you carelessly bumble into a real one.

* Overview

I magically got some kind of mite infestation last year that fed a spider
infestation in my workshop. I cleared the spiders out and the mites eventually
went away.

+ These seem to numb the skin. The scalp itches frequently. They are definitely
  in my bed now. That didn't happen last year.
+ You notice crawling, then numbness & occasionally a reddening of the skin no
  larger than ~2-3mm radius
+ A day or so later, one small circular bite, but occasionally small clusters
  over a 25mm radius
+ I have a 30-60x loupe and a 60-120x LED magnifier. They're difficult to use,
  but I have seen almost nothing.

I just saw what looks like a 25µm black thing on my finger, which may be
mite-poop. I've seen this several times and it's the only typical visual sign
that's "consistent"... in quotes because it's almost entirely nondescript: no
features; nothing "animate". And certainly _not_ visible to the naked eye.

#+begin_quote
NO ONE AND I MEAN NOT A SINGLE FUCKING PERSON EVER EVEN SO MUCH AS USES MY
FUCKING BATHROOM. There is not a single person that would understand what I go
through. If I talk to the doctor therapist about things like this, I'll be
accused of "having the meth bugs" or goddammit i have no fucking clue. The
original infestation occured PRECISELY at a "therapy ultimatum" by the way. I
HATE insecticides and I do NOT want to be living around neurotoxins.

There's not a single person that can help me translate experiences like this,
suggest possibilities or advise me on what to do. When I ask for help (FOR
ANYTHING), it ALWAYS provokes arguments where ANYTHING I say is steered towards
causing /MAXIMAL disruption/ in the discussion -- and at the end, I AM ALWAYS
REMINDED OF HOW I WILL BE HOMELESS /AS SOON AS/ MY MOTHER DIES ... My brother
tells me this like he's talking to a retarded three year old that needs special
handling because they clearly do not understand the consequences of their
decisions or whatever.
#+end_quote

I've narrowed it down to dust mites. These mites seem foreign. I've never heard
of anything like this. I surmised that, they are parasites, which will go
dorment without a host and that I'd maybe encounter them again the next year.

... I was correct. Again, I'm pretty sure these are NOT native to the area.
Before the infestation, I had heard some people talking about "no-see-ums" and
midge flies immediately before I noticed this last year... same progression, a
lot of similar details... but particularly described as "burrowing into the
skin, etc, etc" which is not at all what those are. I guess that's just a non
sequitor though. (***)

For the only possible family [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ceratopogonidae][Ceratopogonidae]] -- of which two I had found with
one /directly/ in my adderall bottle; and also completely novel in this area --
anyways, at all stages of the life cycle, they are too large. The larve are
always described as being 750-1500µm.

Fucking stupid ass bullshit drains a significant amount of my time/energy... and
there's never a single person to be like "man, what the fuck is biting me?" ...
which would go a long way towards fixing something.

I've been the subject of neglect/abuse and the more I make my case, the more
strongly I get repressed and alienated...


#+begin_quote
(***) The thing about "white noise torture" and extreme social isolation: you
tend to conflate the only "signal" you ever experience for being meaningful.
Change the city I live in? Change my life. Simple as that. This is a small town
with basically zero technology community. I am supposed to give up everything
I've ever struggled for to work at Burger King. Fuck that.

And I've tried to "help improve things" but no one pulls me into anything,
really. There are zero strong social connections and it's been that way for
years. Any new acquaitances are easily programmed with what can only be
described as an accidential computer virus that perpetuates bullshit labels I
have no control over. I notice strong changes in how people frame their
interactions with me (or so I think) in the second/third time meeting me. It
never recovers. No one reaches out to me, I have an attachment disorder and I
make less than $3000/per year. These dynamics make it IMPOSSIBLE to re-normalize
my social life.

If you don't understand that, then /there's something wrong with how you model
social patterns/. Mainly, you have it on "easy mode" and the bottom has never
fallen out of your social life. There are an unbelievable number of things that
are just "not going horribly wrong" in your life that you can lose. You wouldn't
even know what they are -- and not only will you never have to care but you'll
never be able to help someone like me.

If it was psychological or psychiatric, therapy would help or maybe
medication... When it's almost purely social, neither will do anything. The
latter will destroy my mind. And coaching me to "lower my goals" is bullshit
when there is literal neglect/abuse. You have no idea how cold it is to mindfuck
someone into accepting that. If you change my social circumstances, you change
my life. I have neither the money nor the social access to this sociophysical
black hole -- and if you didn't fully parse the metaphor _there is a literal
event horizon_.
#+end_quote

* Issues
