:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       1ed910df-8ae0-48a7-8f40-a8c0a715ff46
:END:
#+TITLE: Rant: Teva and the DEA colluded to create an artificial adderal shortage
#+CATEGORY: slips
#+TAGS:

The DEA controls the supply of precursors available for adderall synthesis.
Every few years, they create an artificial shortage to try to encourage people
to switch to “substances marketed to be less addictive” — according to drug
companies who want a higher profit margin. The idea that there is a real
adderall shortage is absurd. It is one of the EASIEST drugs to manufacture. It’s
so easy that “shake and bake bob” can make it with a Gatorade bottle.

#+begin_quote
The first thing that needs to change is that the DEA should have _zero control_
over research on psychedelics. That's besides the point here -- still, with
marijuana still Schedule 1, it's plainly obvious that we'll wait until 2050 to
see medical administration of psychedelics -- Something I may see when I'm 70.
#+end_quote

It's so messed up that our drug policy "leaders" assume that, since we're as
dumb as we were in 1971, we can't possibly understand what's going on here. Let
me explain.

* The Profit Motive

The supply of the brand-name versions is probably limited though, since what
insurance company in their right mind would pay $200+ at 5x cost for the same
medication.

It is available, but the real greed here is pushing people to switch to
Ritalin/Vyvanse. These drugs are harder to make. Vyvanse uses the main adderall
ingrediants as precursors. If you're Teva Pharmaceuticals and you can make
Adderal IR/XR or Vyvanse in the middle of a shortage, which one do you make?

** Total Revenue for Teva Increases

Keep in mind: the generic retail prices of Adderal IR/XR are $30 and $100 (with
GoodRX) and $75 or $250 without; the generic price of Vyvanse which depends more
strongly on dosage is ~$500! For Teva, they collect far more revenue from
Vyvanse than Adderall XR and more from Adderall XR than IR. The difference in
revenue going to Teva should be 50:10:1 for Vyvanse:XR:IR.

So, roughly, Teva pocket 50x as much money if they extend the drug shortage by
manipulating a production process most citizens don't understand. They divert
the amphetamine products to Vyvanse production instead of Adderall IR/XR.

The cost to Teva/FDA? They have to run cover for the DEA which has manufactured
this whole mess. The DEA/FDA have had over a year to deal with this and they
know full well the consequences for patients and how it affects low-income vs.
the insured. This is calculated.

** The DEA's motive and Teva's M.O.

The direct revenue by choosing to produce Vyvanse as the end product vs.
Adderall IR/XR is not the only M.O. here: when the shortage goes on, people
become more aware; they speak to their doctor and follow the advice to switch to
Vyvanse; they can't get their meds anyways (extended release meds take longer to
create); they remain on Vyvanse and artificial supply shortages of generic
Adderall persist, accomplishing the DEA's objective to limit supply.

And Teva? For every person that switches to Vyvanse for 6 months, that's not a
50x increase in revenue for Teva, that's a 6x50x increase in revenue. Teva is
going to make a shit-ton of money by being COMPLICIT with the DEA's
mismanagement.

Meanwhile, low-income Americans (who vote democrat) are going to be on/off ADD
meds for 6-12 months.

* Why Adderall is Different

** Adderall vs. Other Stimulant ADD-medications

Why doesn't ritalin work for adderall users?

well, it might, but in my experience, Ritalin sucks. It makes me wierd, I get
wierd thoughts and I act on them. I know they're wierd at the time, but I sorta
like going along with it. It makes me a bit smarter and I end up calculating
things, but I regret the consequences. It didn't necessarily happen all that
often, but I wasn't on the medication for long. However, I do remember feeling
like I did/said what I did /because of the drug/. These were just weird things,
nothing major, nothing shocking.

That's my subjective experience with Ritalin.

Why doesn't it "just work" for people prescribed Adderall/Vyvanse for years? It
would be better than not being on anything. It is dopaminergic, but it's AFAIK
simply a Dopamine Reuptake Inhibitor (DRI). All drugs have complex action and I've
never extensively researched it. I have researched Adderall alternatives. I've looked into every fucking
amphetamine pro-drug on wikipedia.

** What is the VMAT action?

The main factor distinguishing amphetamines from other ADD drugs and
dopaminergic stimulants: the VMAT action. There are three main pathways: DRI,
TAAR1 and VMAT. The last one affects how *-amines including dop-amine build up
in the axon. VMAT gates vesicles containing neurotransmitters. Amphetamine
causes these vesicles to dump their contents into the synapse. This is likely
partially responsible for amphetamine's noticeable subjective effects --
particularly the tendency for /objects of focus/ to *remain* as objects of
focus. In other words: the subjective effects cause amphetamine to work --
sometimes too well and in the extreme it can create obsessive tendencies.

It is this VMAT action that causes adderall to reallly be a drug of abuse,
whereas other stimulant medications are believed to be drugs-of-abuse ... This
is no doubt promoted by people who would pop any pill with psycho-somatic
effect -- which is particularly dangerous with psychiatric medications!

* Is Vyvanse better than adderal?

Vyvanse is not metabolized by the liver. It is metabolized by aminopeptidases in
red blood cells. Aminopeptidases (AP) and their complement Carboxypeptidase are
form a highly varied, poorly understood class of enzymes. These are found in
almost all organisms. Their occurance and function varies significantly,
depending on phylogenetic details. See the resources below on
"post-translational modifications" ... but you probably can't grok it.

#+begin_src smiles :results output file :file ./img/lisdexamfetamine.svg
O=C(N[C@H](Cc1ccccc1)C)[C@@H](N)CCCCN
#+end_src

#+RESULTS:
[[file:./img/lisdexamfetamine.svg]]

Vyvanse is metabolized by the blood at a constant rate throughout the bodies
tissue -- wherever red blood is found. It undergoes the first pass
metabolization when entering the bloodstream from the gut, but the lycine is not
removed. The AP enzyme must do that. Therefore, as I see it, the tissue
distribution of the medication should be more even.

If PET studies using radioisotopes were permitted, you would see three different
results for three different drugs:

+ lisdexamfetamine (vyvanse) :: uptake is somewhat slower. After 1 hour, there
  would be 6x as much amphetamine in the bloodstream as metabolized vyvanse.
  After 2, 3x. After 3, 2x as much amphetamine as vyvanse.
  - there should be some genetic variation in the metabolization rates of
    vyvanse that depend on genetic variations in AP enzymes.
+ amphetamine (A) :: uptake is quick, sticks closer to the regions of the brain with
  more blood supply.
  - i.e. it sticks to the lizard brain. this should make some of the
    stereotypical behavioral side effects seen in meth usage worse with
    adderall, adjusting for the dosage.
  - But since the DEA only permits studies on meth to prove how bad it is, there
    are too few studies with _actual medical dosages_ of the drug. Users of the
    street drug may consume as much in one night as would be legally permitted
    in one month (450mg for a 15mg dosage from a doctor). Adderall is actually
    just as neurotoxic at these dosages, but it is difficult to synthesize, so
    it's not encountered as a street drug.
+ methamphetamine (MA) :: this should be more thoroughly dispersed throughout
  the brain.
  - the lipophilic differences in solubility should be more pronounced in the
    brain, where quite a bit of tissue is fat. Pharmaceutical companies _must_
    know how their drug's solubility affects it's action wrt the anatomy of the
    brain. This should cause more prefrontal activation and is probably more
    responsible for the differences in MA's effects than amphetamine.
  - studies on how much meth you can dose orangatans with until they display
    violent behavior and neurodenegeration upon autopsy should not count as
    research here. it should be plainly obvious that no other recreational drug
    will burn out users and turn out zombies faster. we know that and it's
    tragic.
  - This is a _TRIVIAL EXERCISE_ for computational medicine and computational
    neurology.

The DEA's monopoly on research is coming to an end. We're close to finding out
just how much they, academia and the pharmaceutical corporations have been lying
about -- with almost every drug. We will discover most of this information
almost simultaneously in approximately 5 years. The only way you can prevent
that is through a _global reset_: of social systems, media access, information
availability and financial systems. Forget MA for a second because this is
bigger than that.

Controversial? Yes ... BUT IT IS CORRECT AND WILL BE INCONTROVERTIBLY
DEMONSTRSATED TO BE SO.

Long-story short, while the instant-release forms have similar half-lives, it's
very likely that vyvanse dosage lasts longer and that it activates the
prefrontal cortex far more appropriately than amphetamine.

* Adderal Alternatives

What alternatives will people seek in response to the shortage? Well... whatever
the news and social media tell them to: /Vyvanse/ and Ritalin.

** Nootropics

I would recommend Lion’s Mane, ashwaganda and Bacopa. They are in other
supplements at Walmart as well (onnit). Neuriva has coffee bean extract and
phosphydatyl serine. High doses of Omega-3 DHA can help too. None of these are
dopaminergic: bacopa and lions mane are like antidepressants, but cause NGF
release.

Be cautious of synthetic-sounding nootropics. Even amino-acid precursors can be
bad. These are tightly regulated systems in your body. If they are out of
balance, you need to correct that.

** Nicotine

No. Do not rely on nicotine for ADD...

it's quite addictive and tends to create dependency. you can't easily step down
from nicotine. there's quite a bit of research that indicates nicotine improves
cognitive performance, but mostly in people who need an improvement (e.g.
alzheimers). when someone doesn't need cognitive improvement, nicotine acts like
other psychiatric drugs and oversaturates the that neurotransmitter system
throughout the brain. this affects the systems at a coarse-grain level and
remove's the brain's ability to engage in "fine-grain" scale effects. i.e.
thoughts and performance result from the brain tuning it's own mechanisms at a
fine-grain scale and you lose that when you saturate specific neurotransmitter
systems. this actually happens with adderall and probably most psychiatric
medications.

billionaires depend on their brain's fine-tune scaling. you rarely see extremely
successful people like bill gates or mark cuban using hard-drugs or very many
drugs at all. this would totally disrupt their brain's ability to function the
way they need it. you can't merely tinker with neurotransmitter systems without
severely affecting the brain's ability to regulate itself at the fine-scale.

the main problem with using nicotine and adderall is appetite. the circadian
rhythm is affected by more than sleep. the schedule at which you eat meals
affects the serotonin systems and also regulates your body/brain's clock.
nicotine's appetite suppression effects are extreme -- i can't easily stop using
oral nicotine and i hate it. my brain gets very screwed up, esp. on adderal,
when i don't eat. because of adderall, i have to eat meals early and whenever
possible. with nicotine, this is basically never.

as explained above, nicotine affects the dopamine circuits in an indirect
manner. so, Nicotine's NAch receptor activation from results in calcium influx
and then downstream dopamine release. this is why cokeheads smoke cigarettes: it
magnifies cocaine and/or adderall's effects on dopamine reuptake by increasing
synaptic concentrations of dopamine.

Adderall's VMAT action does the same thing: it increases dopamine
concentrations, distinguishing it from other "stimulant" ADHD drugs like
Ritalin. This VMAT action also results in adderall's subjective effects.

TL;DR: you will end up with far more problems if you choose to replace adderall
with nicotine. it will seem to help at first, then won't help at all. when you
start using adderall again, you'll have to choose between appetite suppression
(and the dysfunction that results) or mild cognitive impairment of nicotine
withdrawal (up to 2-6 months for chronic users).

** Caffeine

Avoid high doses of caffeine. This will seem to help, but will cause your
body/brain to not recover during sleep. You will just feel like you need it,
then you will not feel okay without it even when on adderall. Cardio in the
long term will do the opposite as long-term caffeine. It upregulates your
body/brains stores of cAMP and improves mitochondrial function.

** Cardio Excercise

About thirty minutes of cardio per day will upregulate epigenetic mechanisms
that will retune your brain to function on less dopamine. That’s what I would
recommend. If you go in a 3-mile jog per day then back off to 2 runs per week,
you will feel & function much better.

A mild "runner's high" means that you've activated epigenetic programs in your
brain and hormone systems. Which ones? I can't say. I have no idea, but you're
body does respond powerfully to opiates.

** Functional Ensemble of Temperate (FET)

If you have time, watch [[Functional Ensemble of Temperament (FET)][this interview of Dr. Trofimova]] who specializes in
polymaths. Her FET theory is wild. If you see the table of neurotransmitters
(you'll know what i'm talking about), it describes how the various neurological
systems fit together. It's a bit speculative: this stuff doesn't exactly fit
neatly into an ontology, but it is by far one of the best snapshots of
relationships between neurotransmitters I've ever seen. BY FAR.

The various opiate systems (mu, kappa, delta) serve to modulate the other
neurotransmitter systems. The effect they have is powerful. When you release
endogenous opioids, there is a meaning to that. When you abuse opiates, you
severely impair these systems' ability to influence your mind's plasticity... Or
you allow someone or some drug source to exert influence over this plasticity.
It's bad.

The Runner's High? That's very good, with moderation and good knees. That's your
brain feeding its fine-tune scaling back into it's more coarse-grained
mechanisms. From a evolutionary psychology standpoint, it encourages or enables
you to reach your goal -- but then this signal backpropagates through other
networks that effect the pituitary system.

* Diet and Pharmaceuticals

Depending on your diet and your urine pH, adderall can be subject to extreme
fluctuations in *BOTH* blood-plasma concentration

Amphetamine's dissociation constants cause it to freely convert between two
forms:

+ free-base form :: fat-soluble)
+ ionic form ::  kind of quasi-form where it's far more likely to temporarily
  bound to ions

Understand this and you must know what a crock of shit the dosage on a label
is... The American diet is garbage. Eat a diet full of vegetables and the
amphetamine half-life will double. The same effects apply to all
pharmaceuticals, though amphetamine is a particularly spectacular example of a
drug whose plasma concentrations vary with diet.

I cannot emphasize this enough:

#+begin_quote
THE SMALLER THE MOLECULE THE GREATER EFFECT THAT ITS FUNCTIONAL GROUPS HAVE ON
ITS SOLUBILITY, PER MOLAR MASS.

The same thing describes how isotopes at specific positions in a molecule affect
their molecular dynamics. It's all kinematics. Don't sleep through Physics 1.
#+end_quote

For larger more complicated pharmaceuticals, the solubility is less likely to
flucuate, but Adderal is about as goddamn simple as is possible for a
pharmaceutical -- which is why this "shortage" is bullshit! But, you're a good
little American: maybe you have a college degree but you don't ask questions;
maybe you don't, but you ain't as dumb as they made people back in 1971.

But you still eat that god-awful chow and fast-food. When does your doctor
advise you on your diet? It's when you want to lose weight, isn't it? Or when
your heart is about to give up. Ever wonder why insurance and health care bleed
you dry? The West abused it's power from colonialization to suppress/humiliate
traditional medicines and establish a monopoly on health. The same kind of
monopoly that the Greeks wrote about in the story of the Sons of [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asclepius][Asclepius]].

What kind of monopoly would it be if they didn't bleed you dry?

You see, I can "critical theory" too -- and I am damn good at it. But let me be
clear: while western medicine has a lot to learn from other cultures, the
failure of the health care system in America is not the fault of doctors.

But you'll only rarely hear a doctor advise you on specific aspects of your diet
unless that is the "central issue" -- heart disease, obesity or in some cases
specific side effects from known treatments. Their argument? It's their ethical
duty to have happen what you would choose if you had the experience of a doctor
... but too much information given to a patient overcomplicates their treatment
and could cause adverse outcomes. Once the patient leaves the office, the doctor
should have some expectation that the patient is able to choose to follow the
most essential and cogent recommendations.

But in diet and nutrition, the whole system fails. It fails so catastrophically
that throughout the 2010's, we almost had a goddamn socialist revolution over
this shit. And it's because Americans keep eating garbage.

And that is sold to you to process you into an ideal customer for another class
of products.

* Fin

Let me end this rant by transcluding some content from other drafts...

** Aminopeptidases PROVE that Zinc affects the Immune System

Please, please, medical professionals: grok this -- in case Zinc was missing
from your goddamn immunology textbook.

[[https://www.thermofisher.com/us/en/home/life-science/protein-biology/protein-biology-learning-center/protein-biology-resource-library/pierce-protein-methods/overview-post-translational-modification.html][Overview of Post-Translational Modifications (PTMs)]]

Maybe science misunderstands the relationship between aminopeptidase (AP)
cleavage and cancer. While it’s complex and I don’t fully understand the range
of AP enzyme types, a brief glance at research suggests that:

- AP’s act on small proteins
- AP’s require zinc to function
- Some AP’s (APN) are involved in the HLA-1 systems that present degraded
  proteins on the cell surface for the immune system
- Many AP’s have tissue-specific distribution (e.g. LAP expression is found in
  lymph nodes at more than twice the average rate … by RNA read analysis)
- Amino acid cleavage results in functional changes to protein chains
  (hydrophilic end => hydrophobic end)
- cleavage may strongly affect the folding seen in small protein chains, which
  should be broken into subunits according to their functional properties
  resulting in many more repeated subunits than would be were the process to be
  uniformly random (I.e. a very small region of the domain of potential degraded
  protein subunits contains almost all of the observed subunits — were this not
  the case, the immune system would see more noise than signal! Viz. I am
  fucking correct about that)

However, depending on the negative feedback mechanisms for AP-x expression in
cells, it is possible that over-expression of AP-x (from *poorly distributed*
Zinc 2+ ions) causes AP-x to be paradoxically associated with disease. In the
case of poor availability of Zinc, then there should be strong
*tissue-dependent* availability of Zinc ions and thus disregulation of these
immune-marking systems. This, combined with the immune-system’s reliance on
inflammation both to access tissue networks and further expand inflammation
would exacerbate its bias to selectively engage in tissues.

So while I’m on the topic of Post-Translational Modifications (PTM’s),
beta-glycan illustrate the idea of probabilistic programs that modulate state as
conditional bayesian distributions *encoded into beta-glycan* chains. This is
regularized through spatial compartmentalization of state
(organ/tissue/capillary network/cell/organelle).

*** A succinct summarization of beta-glucans

Source from slides, copied by hand. Impossible to find online, via image search or however.

[[file:img/beta-glucan-table.jpg]]

** Postranslational Modifications and Fungal Metabolism

Fungi take a completely different approach to finding/eating food than their
animal descendents: their mycelium grow into a decaying food source with many
foreign chemicals and something like the immune system tags pieces it recognizes
for metabolization. In the presence of these tags, it accelerates the breakdown
and reconsolidation of foreign matter into common units it can move and store.
To do so, it identifies “shortcuts” through the configuration-space of molecule
arrangements that retain the enthalpy of organized matter while circumventing
total decay into disorganized entropy.

In our bodies, some of these sugar chains are rare. We can integrate these
sugars by ingesting mushrooms while circumventing total digestion in the stomach
— the pH of which acts as a locked gate of sorts. The right meal with the right
fiber with the right fluid can allow up to two magnitudes greater absorption of
active chemicals than most scientific studies would find.

Since science disregards subjective experience and limits the
control/experimental variables to “what is necessary or relevant” they often
pass over chemicals/supplements for experimentation on this basis. If the diet
of human/rat subjects is not measured/modulated, there should be much greater
variation in many signals including plasma concentrations. In a few
methodologies, this ablates away the “magically p-value” into the zone of
statistically stupid.

Hopefully computational science can find what we’ve been missing the whole time.

*** Categorical Probability and Statistics 2020

This math combines tensors and categories, producing an algebra that can be used
as a basis for probabilistic programs ... or just machine learning.

Applications include:

+ Agent-based simulations and prediction of weak emergence in such.***
+ Encoding "programs" based on fuzzy logic
+ Metanomics simulations that compress computation by emulating interactions
  between system units.
+ Extending control theory with stochastically informed modulation of the system
+ Recognition of novel or anomalous system dynamics (eigenphase identification)
+ Renormalization of recognized dynamics clusters into optimally disentangled
  representations of such ... if the system can be renormalized.

#+begin_html
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLaILTSnVfqtIebAXFOcee9MvAyBwhIMyr" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+end_html


#+begin_quote
(***) Provided that measurability issues can be addressed... for reference here's
the only random paper I could find that doesn't involve quantum physics:
[[https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~chazelle/pubs/renormTNSE15.pdf][Algorithmic Renormalization for Network Dynamics]].

Quantum physics mostly consists of physicists throwing every advanced statistics
tool they can at natural laws. Most of these statistical methods descriptive in
any context, but some can also be prescriptive. Most pop-science enthusiasts
have a hard time distinguishing between describing a system's observed behavior
and it's mechanics. As much as I hate material reductionists, here's how the
LessWrong wiki humbly sums it up: [[https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/34Q5PJEaDCriijkc7/natural-laws-are-descriptions-not-rules][Natural Laws Are Descriptions, not Rules]]. They
are probably less wrong than I though ... but still wrong.
#+end_quote


** Bonus Points: Bang Energy

Bonus points if you manage to overturn a retarded Califonian jury's decision
against Bang Energy on the "scientific" result from Monster Energy. [[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8840086/][Whether
creatyl-l leucine (Super Creatine) is metabolized into Creatine]] resulted in
about $500 million damages in two cases that hinged on _twenty-four rats. This
"research" was paid for by Monster/Coke and is managed by a research lab in
Colorado. It is owned by a leftist and the owner of Bang is famously pro-Trump.

There is a reason that the Orange Bang is the last one you'll see on store
shelves. It will never sell out because it tastes like shit. It could taste like
dreamsicles, but no -- a company called "Orange Bang" forced Bang to agree to
future arbitration in dispute settlement. Monster discovered the relationship
and agreement details and exploited them to remove a competitor from the market.

Forget for a second that all these energy drinks are complete ripoffs. They do
not contain appreciable levels of the active ingredients marketed on their
lables. The truth is that limited quantities of creatyl-l leuciine are likely
metabolized in lymph nodes. [[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene?cmd=retrieve&dopt=default&list_uids=51056&rn=1#gene-expression][According to an RPKM metric]], where all RNA reads per
million are under 80, the levels of Leucyl-Aminopeptidase expressed in
lymphnodes is twice as high.

If true then, yes, that means that consuming Bang Energy while supplementing
with bioavailable Zinc could theoretically aid in allowing B-Cells to persist
memory of coronavirus infections. Aminophosphydases (AP) all require zinc to
function -- which is complicated because AP upregulation here correlates with
breast cancer severity. And yeh, it's a /little speculative/. Anyways, depending
on the verity and significance of LAP metabolization of /creatyl-l leucine/ in
lymph nodes, then not only is that jury wrong (technically), but the tissue
specific availability of creatine should help bolster the energy budget of the
immune system in the areas where immune memory is created.

For those of us that enjoy a good intellectual endeavor, that the nastification
of the Orange-flavored bang was an intentional attempt at a last laugh ranks as
one of the most fucking hilarious things that you will never have the chance to
think if someone like me doesn't point it out.
