:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       5dd45306-94d5-4555-9286-e7a21fe6cf9a
:END:
#+TITLE: LinkedIn Rant: Disability
#+CATEGORY: slips
#+TAGS:  

* Roam
+ Rants


* First Thread

Where is [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPC3mLNL3B0][this guy]] when you need help navigating social services like disability?

#+begin_export html
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HPC3mLNL3B0?si=B3jxThl7u9OH4gX3" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+end_export

My mom is threatening to cut the internet unless I look into disability… but my
median income for a decade is less than $5000 — that’s less than the average
income in the African Sahel.

I never recieved any government money from social programs until I was maybe 36.
I was libertarian and emphatically living according to my values, though I
didn’t push that onto other people. No unemployment. No food stamps. Not a dime
from anything like that. I received FAFSA at 36 and I’m on Medicaid now.

Now I have some “disability ultimatum” from my family and I DONT HAVE INCOME
HISTORY TO ESTABLISH A FAIR VALUE FOR SOCIAL SECURITY COMPENSATION

i swear to god this is infuriating. Basically people in this country use other
people up and then treat them like garbage. They have the luxury of thinking
“that’s just business” or however they rationalize it: only because no one sees
what happens when the social safety net isn’t there. It enables selfish,
sociopathic and narcissistic behavior in life. Usually that behavior is not
catastrophic. Usually it’s not even malicious — it’s just circumstantial.

However, in my life, I’m mischaracterized as crazy and my town is so small,
there are zero jobs. I need social access to people who work with technology …
but that subculture barely exists here and no one knows to go looking for it
because there’s no critical mass to satiate demand for tech subcultures. It’s
not in the consciousness.

So my life is ruined, I’m alienated from most of the people who would otherwise
help someone like me network to get a job. People that help often don’t realize
how little financial or social resources I have or the challenges it creates. It
turns every simple thing into a potential vector for failure. It impairs
“learning how to adult” — you can’t simply buy the $5 or $25 thing to solve
small problems. Every single potential risk seems catastrophic bc you have no
leverage or optionality.

There’s this assumption of “everything is going to be okay” when it’s not. It is
not okay. It makes me angry as hell … and so then maybe people suggest mental
health interventions & Medicaid & disability & medication … when really you need
and DESERVE a job where you are allowed to use your mind. At that point the
doctors appointments never end and a small group of people will bill
100,000-200,000 per year to treat a problem that doesn’t exist in a patient
people believe could never make more than $30,000

These are the #MoralHazards that Ron Paul was talking about.

** Studying disability law

So now, instead of working on Linux & some Robotics projects, I have to study VA
Disability Law. It’s not the first time I’ve felt the need to study law for
myself, but it is probably the ONE thing I study that gets me paid.

And if the social safety net ever collapsed, you would see revolution overnight.
Everything would instantly fall apart because the norms of how people treat each
other (narcissism & sociopathy) would not change, but the stressors would get
pushed up to 96°C.

I.e. if either

(1) US Govt could not support the number of beneficiaries due to sudden skew in
income & financial resources

(2) Or the west faces an unreconcileable economic crisis, like the currency
crisis trap (stock crash without bond recovery cycle) that BRICS is trying to
lead us to. They’re baiting us into wars we won’t fight while calling the
legitimacy of SWIFT & economic sanctions into question — not to mention the
legitimacy of the UN if it couldn’t figure out how to resolve Gaza. If we fight:
rug pull on the global economy -> “hey how about that new gold-backed BRICS
currency?”

Yeh and at no point will a country full of anti-patriotic people do anything
cooperative to stop the collapse.

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bhgc6anPltU][2023 dLCV Summit]]

#+begin_export html
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Bhgc6anPltU?si=eRP4tMmEL6LOS23B" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+end_export


** Whether I had Asperger's

Actually, the issue of whether or not I had Asperger’s basically fractured my
family… really just alienated them from me since Asperger’s is not a “bad”
diagnosis. From 2011ish until 2023 and later this was a topic in probably 15
arguments and maybe 50 conversations. It was always coldly rejected with the
rationale “we don’t know no better.”

For a second, imagine the impact of social diffusion of information/beliefs
related to (1) my assertion of Asperger’s and (2) conversations/arguments where
it’s an important premise, MATERIAL to the issue at hand (material in the legal
sense, while still being contested).

How does that information diffuse?

Remember, the nature of autism as not being a “bad” diagnosis is what led them
to react poorly to it. I could have named other diagnoses that they’d still know
nothing about (depression, ADD, bipolar, schizo-X, etc) and they’d react
similarly — “idk… doctor?” — but without the total rejection of that information
as being valid for discussion.

The information would diffuse to create the opposite impression in 3rd parties.
In other words, they’d occasionally need to explain it away to other people,
preemptively painting me as having a “malingering” motive.

[[img/rants/IMG_2569.jpg]]


*** Malingering?

I specifically remember the word malingering being used — not TO me, but in
front of me (indirectly), knowing I wouldn’t recognize the jargon

Since whether I had Asperger’s was contentious — while also being material in
the legal sense, but not in a legal context; as in, it is a logical variable
that is very consequential in determining how rest of the logical statements in
an argument are evaluated — then it would establishing the opposite impression
in other people would over-determine their analysis (even if accidental)

The scope of damage is related to the scope of the subject’s "Social
Neighborhood" that is influenced by false information. You’d find this reasoning
in damage estimation in defamation cases. The permanence of damage: related to
how it affects social dynamics & whether it causes alienation or active
dissociation

This isnt the only cause of alienation/dissociation in my life — but social
effects multiply

When your 2° social neighborhood have connections to 90% of your 1°
neighborhood, then you have no “worlds that could collide” (see Seinfeld S7 E8).
Most people you meet will also be common to 2° neighborhood: beliefs about you
outweigh any fleeting first impression you make (if you’re lucky to get one!)
** Information Assymetry


One tactic for handling intelligent people that’s almost instinctual (I.e. it’s
usually unconscious)… people close to you that can’t model your thought or
tendencies will tend to close off information. The more “material” the info, the
less likely you are to have it plainly explained. E.g. if its …

- critical to understanding/predicting what’s going on behind the scenes
- or to small family business finance
- or gives you insight into their intent

… then the more tightly they control it.

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lHaA69iPIqU][Public life, private life, secret life]]

#+begin_export html
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lHaA69iPIqU?si=mRdO21HmuWjlj2Rj" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+end_export


They will not discuss their “secret life” or “private life” whatsoever. They may
give you a distorted perspective on their “public life”. Or a false persona This
is extremely disorienting, but worse -> it implies they already consciously
intend to not associate w/ you — or they will develop a stunted superficial
“nice” relationship where they feel good just for being nice to a “crazy”
person. But they’ll never get close

So if there aren’t enough “fish in the sea” for your local technology
subculture, you are permanently (AND PROVABLY) on the outside. It is NOT “a roll
of the dice”, it is NOT bad luck, it is NOT insanity. It is KNOWABLY an
impossible challenge to recover.

*** Causal Occlusion

And the most frustrating part: it is “no one’s fault”. As in, “no one” did that
to you. It’s instead a complete lack of ordinary social
relationships/interactions that creates your own personal never-ending whirlpool
of failure and frustration.

No one is an island, so you can’t expect Tom Hanks with a Volleyball to launch a
startup. You won’t even get close to success without leveraging a social
network. So when you are completely isolated from people and every person you
meet unintentionally establishes an abnormal relationship, everything you try to
do is destined for failure.

You may learn quickly, but you’ll have no teachers.

You may have a lot of experience, but you’ll never impart it to anyone who would
appreciate it in the future.

You may be coachable and be able to adapt your personality/cognition, but you’ll
never get feedback from the perspective of a 2nd party (a boss, coworker,
colleague, friend, etc.

You may have great advice or insight, but you’ll never hear someone tell a
story. You will have no stories to tell anyone. Ever.

* Second Thread

Hey, [[https://vamedicaid.dmas.virginia.gov/pdf_chapter/developmental-disabilities-waivers-bi-fis-cl-services#gsc.tab=0][they have “group services”]] (search provider manual for [[https://vamedicaid.dmas.virginia.gov/pdf_chapter/developmental-disabilities-waivers-bi-fis-cl-services#gsc.tab=0&gsc.q=group%20services&gsc.sort=][Group Servicse]])
which means I’m very likely to network with all kinds of people who can help me
in my technology journey.

I wish Virginia would just cut me a check to move out of state or into a city
where I can actually find tech subcultures & meetups. Some of the unintended
consequences of these programs:

- They lock you into a location where you’re far too poor to move. It’s too
  complex anyways — maybe you know someone who lives in another state or have
  time to read hundreds of pages of PDFs on those programs. Better get to their
  DMV real quick & cross your fingers
- Your social networks are limited to section-8 housing & RADAR vans (plenty of
  time to read to/from the time & place for your requisite billing code)
- none of these people travel and they’re more likely to be socially isolated
  (small 1° and 2° neighborhoods). Many can not afford to drive, so their social
  networks extend only to their housing unit, their family and maybe some
  Discord Anime PFPs online

** From the ARC of Nova

From the “ARC of Nova” [[https://thearcofnova.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Entering-Work-Updated-October-2019.pdf][ENTERING THE WORLD OF WORK]] A Guide to Employment,
Meaningful Day Services, and Post-Secondary Options For Adults with Disabilities

But hey, if you hire me, you get like $500 in tax credits! You can take that to
the bank. At least I’d be able to check that box on 500 applications that go
straight to the HR Database black hole…

[[img/rants/IMG_2570.jpg]]


https://virginiaworks.gov/_docs/local-area-profiles/5121040220.pdf

** Virginia Works

It is NOT for lack of trying, but for 

- bad timing
- need for a local job with mentorship
- poorly informed disruption…

… from people who refuse to listen, don’t bother to get visibility, do not use
digital communication (I need visual communication), haven’t applied for a job
in 10-30 years, don’t model social behavior, don’t understand networking and are
seemingly advised by third parties without oversight/feedback

** Roanoke ARC is Down

#+begin_quote
NOTE: The organization has disbanded temporary AFAIK (it looks like a sad story)
#+end_quote

The Roanoke website is down... which is sad. Some kind of TLS/proxy
misconfiguration maybe related to recent implementation changes in the cloud
host or proxy service provider (which is also maybe down idk)

Also, (top right), if there is a "trust" involved, then yeh I'd probably want to
pretend like i didn't understand any of the program details either. Nice

** PTSD

Well … everything *except* the one at the top of the list. At least not directly
(hard to explain)… but definitely literally everything else on the list to some
extent.

This is total bullshit. It is exactly everything I worried about: you’re
basically submitting to psychiatric control, which can be arbitrary or easily
iatrogenic… and they’ll take it away if you don’t comply. I hate my life.

[[img/rants/IMG_2574.PNG]]
